
# Democratic Influence over Election Data 
In this document, I discuss the controversial topic of whether or not the elction data was modified in order to rig the election. I discuss two articles with opposing views, and present my personal view on both. 

## Article 1
In the Fox News article `[Yes, the election was rigged for Joe Biden. Here's how](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/tucker-carlson-2020-presidential-election-rigged-big-tech-mainstream-media)`, author Tucker Carlson explains that the latest election was rigged due to the Democrats’ push for mail-in ballots. Also, Carlson claims that electronic voting machines aren’t secure, which allows for election data to be manipulated. Furthermore, the big claim that Carlson makes is that the Democrats used technology to censor ideas of the Republicans, which allowed them to influence the common person to support the Democrats. However, Republicans’ claims of voter fraud are often backed up by evidence that consists of misconstrued data. For example, a common claim was that there were 23,000 absentee ballots in Pennsylvania that had postal return dates that should be considered invalid, but many states have laws that allow these ballots to be counted after Election Day, as long as they’re postmarked by Election Day. Pennsylvania is an example of this, as the Supreme Court ruled that their ballot deadline would be extended to the 6th of November. 

In my opinion, pretty much all claims of voter fraud are invalid. With roughly half of the US being Republican and half of the US being Democrat, it’s pretty unlikely that one political party is able to control and win the election through rigging the voter data. In addition, when many different counties and states were accused of voter fraud, the accusations were often targeted towards technology related issues. I am from Delaware County, and the PA State Senate (mostly Republican) tried to claim that there were thumb drives used at Delaware County voting machines that could upload votes for Biden. However, these thumb drives were simply used to transfer data from the machines in order to tally the votes correctly. 


## Article 2
While Fox News claims that the election was rigged, BBC News `[US election 2020: Fact-checking Trump team's main fraud claims](https://www.bbc.com/news/election-us-2020-55016029)` reports that these claims are simply false. A major claim that Trump made was that Joe Biden suddenly received a surge of votes in certain states such as Michigan, but these surges are due to the results of big cities being released. In the case of Michigan, Milwaukee and Detroit both swung left, and when the results of these two cities were released the votes for Biden inevitably went up significantly. For this reason, I think that the Republican claims of fraud are invalid. With voting, there obviously can’t be an accurate real-time counter of all votes, and there’s going to surges in voters for both Biden and Trump when a big area of a state swings left or right. 

In addition, manipulating election data is extremely difficult and it is virtually impossible to be rigging the data of hundreds of voting machines across multiple states. When counting the votes, both Republicans and Democrats are responsible for counting, which means that fraud is very unlikely. Also, a lot of the data from the side of the Republicans has a lot of made up information. Another big argument from the side of the Republicans was that there were many voters who were dead, but still voted. There was a list released of 10,000 people who were supposedly dead but were still registered voters, but the methodology of creating the list was clearly flawed, as many of the people on the list personally claimed to still be alive. 

